327 how to write an app refactor (#329)
FAIRmat-NFDI/nomad-docs: docs/howto/plugins/types/apps.md

    )
    ```

### Search quantities

> Apps can only display and work on values that are indexed in the NOMAD search index. Not all values can/should be meaningfully indexed, as they would otherwise overcrowd and slow down the search functionality. By default, **apps can work on scalar quantities that are present in the schemas**, as they are automatically indexed. This means that e.g. values from lists or multidimensional arrays are not available for search.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Apps can only display and work on values that are indexed in the NOMAD search index. Not all values can/should be meaningfully indexed, as they would otherwise overcrowd and slow down the search functionality. By default, **apps can work on scalar quantities that are present in the schemas**, as they are automatically indexed. This means that, for example, values from lists or multidimensional arrays are not available for search.
```

> Quantities that are indexed and can thus be searched are in this document referred to as **search quantities**, and the app configuration often refers to them. E.g. to display a specific search quantity as an app column, one would define it like this:

Reviewer: The app column was not really mentioned before (only in the snippet above), so maybe you can link to its explanation later on the page.

The following items are supported in menus, and you can read more about them in the App reference:

<!-- `#menu_1` is the generated `#### Menu` heading; `### Menu` above takes `#menu`. -->
- [`Menu`](#menu_1): Defines a nested submenu.
- [`MenuItemTerms`](#menuitemterms): Used to display a set of possible text options.
- [`MenuItemHistogram`](#menuitemhistogram): Histogram of numerical values.
- [`MenuItemPeriodicTable`](#menuitemperiodictable): Displays a periodic table.
- [`MenuItemVisibility`](#menuitemvisibility): Controls for the query visibility.

> - [`MenuItemNestedObject`](#menuitemnestedobject): Used to group together menu items so that their query is performed using an Elasticsearch nested query. Note that you cannot yet use nested queries for search quantities originating from custom schemas.

Reviewer: There are many more below like `MenuDefinitions`, `MenuOption`, etc. 

Are these intentionally not mentioned?

Author: This is intentional: I don't mention the deprecated ones here.

> ### Widgets

Reviewer: Any reason for the renaming here? Just to avoid the conflict with the Dashboard EntryPoint? It is a bit weird because the actual app configuration is still called `Dashboard`, but then there are these `Widget*` classes inside. One would possibly expect that the top-level item should be called `Widget`, similarly to how `Menu` has `Menu*` classes inside.

Maybe we could in the future define `Widget = Dashboard` in the code and then use `Widget` publically?

Author: Yes the renaming is due to the clash with the new Dashboard plugin entry point type.

We should migrate the app configuration to use another term, but not sure yet what we call it.

Reviewer: I would think `Widget` is just fine, that's what such small, self-contained pieces of code that serve a specific content are often called. But I let you make that decision.

> The app may display widgets which contain terms or numerical information and can be controlled in size and position. Here is an example of a widget configuration:

Reviewer: terms or numerical information seems to be quite vague

Author: Agreed, now fixed.

<!-- fmt: off -->
```python
--8<-- "examples/plugins/widgets.py"
```
<!-- fmt: on -->

These are the available widgets:

- [`WidgetTerms`](#widgetterms): Displays the most frequently appearing values for a categorical search quantity.
- [`WidgetHistogram`](#widgethistogram): Displays the frequency of a numerical search quantity by grouping values into bins.
- [`WidgetScatterplot`](#widgetscatterplot): Displays a scatter plot for two numerical search quantities.
- [`WidgetBoxPlot`](#widgetboxplot): Displays a box plot for a numerical search quantity, optionally grouped and subgrouped by a categorical search quantity.
- [`WidgetPeriodicTable`](#widgetperiodictable): Displays a periodic table with occurrence of each element using a search quantity that contains chemical element names.

### Columns

Controls columns show in the table of search results. Here you can control the order, units, labelling, and the data source for the colums. Here is an example:

<!-- fmt: off -->
```python
--8<-- "examples/plugins/columns.py"
```
<!-- fmt: on -->

See the [`Column`](#column) and [`Format`](#format) options for more details.

### Row actions

> You may add specific, always-visible actions for each result table row. Here is an example of two actions, one opening up a NORTH tool, and the other for opening up a link.

Reviewer: We could explain what we mean by "action" here

Reviewer: We kind of do that already with the example below, but maybe in a more general sense

Author: I now improved this a bit.
